---
layout: post
title: session的高级用法
date: 2013-10-28 16:37
author: admin
comments: true
categories: []
---
<?php # Script 3.1 - db_sessions.inc.php

/* 
 *	This page creates the functional
 *	interface for storing session data
 *	in a database.
 *	This page also starts the session.
 */

// Global variable used for the database 
// connections in all session functions:
$sdbc = NULL;

// Define the open_session() function:
// This function takes no arguments.
// This function should open the database connection.
function open_session() {

	global $sdbc;
	
	// Connect to the database.
	$sdbc = mysqli_connect ('localhost', 'username', 'password', 'test') OR die ('Cannot connect to the database.');
	
	return true;

} // End of open_session() function.
 
// Define the close_session() function:
// This function takes no arguments.
// This function closes the database connection.
function close_session() {

	global $sdbc;
	
	return mysqli_close($sdbc);
	
} // End of close_session() function.

// Define the read_session() function:
// This function takes one argument: the session ID.
// This function retrieves the session data.
function read_session($sid) {

	global $sdbc;

 	// Query the database:
 	$q = sprintf('SELECT data FROM sessions WHERE id="%s"', mysqli_real_escape_string($sdbc, $sid)); 
	$r = mysqli_query($sdbc, $q);
	
	// Retrieve the results:
	if (mysqli_num_rows($r) == 1) {
	
		list($data) = mysqli_fetch_array($r, MYSQLI_NUM);
		
		// Return the data:
		return $data;

	} else { // Return an empty string.
		return '';
	}
	
} // End of read_session() function.

// Define the write_session() function:
// This function takes two arguments: 
// the session ID and the session data.
function write_session($sid, $data) {

	global $sdbc;

	// Store in the database:
 	$q = sprintf('REPLACE INTO sessions (id, data) VALUES ("%s", "%s")', mysqli_real_escape_string($sdbc, $sid), mysqli_real_escape_string($sdbc, $data)); 
	$r = mysqli_query($sdbc, $q);

	return mysqli_affected_rows($sdbc);

} // End of write_session() function.

// Define the destroy_session() function:
// This function takes one argument: the session ID.
function destroy_session($sid) {

	global $sdbc;

	// Delete from the database:
 	$q = sprintf('DELETE FROM sessions WHERE id="%s"', mysqli_real_escape_string($sdbc, $sid)); 
	$r = mysqli_query($sdbc, $q);
	
	// Clear the $_SESSION array:
	$_SESSION = array();

	return mysqli_affected_rows($sdbc);

} // End of destroy_session() function.

// Define the clean_session() function:
// This function takes one argument: a value in seconds.
function clean_session($expire) {

	global $sdbc;

	// Delete old sessions:
 	$q = sprintf('DELETE FROM sessions WHERE DATE_ADD(last_accessed, INTERVAL %d SECOND) < NOW()', (int) $expire); 
	$r = mysqli_query($sdbc, $q);

	return mysqli_affected_rows($sdbc);

} // End of clean_session() function.

# **************************** #
# ***** END OF FUNCTIONS ***** #
# **************************** #

// Declare the functions to use:
session_set_save_handler('open_session', 'close_session', 'read_session', 'write_session', 'destroy_session', 'clean_session');

// Make whatever other changes to the session settings.

// Start the session:
session_start();

?>

